clarify tutorial (#669)
hyperledger/besu-docs: docs/Tutorials/Examples/Private-Network-Example.md

# Quorum Developer Quickstart tutorial

The Quorum Developer Quickstart uses the Hyperledger Besu Docker image to run a private
[IBFT2](../../HowTo/Configure/Consensus-Protocols/IBFT.md) network of Besu nodes managed by Docker Compose.

!!! warning
    This tutorial runs a private network suitable for education or demonstration purposes
    and is not intended for running production networks.

## Prerequisites

* One of the following operating systems is required:
    * Linux on x86_64 architecture.
    * macOS on an Intel processor (M1 processor not supported yet)
    * Windows 64bits edition

> * [Docker and Docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Docker and Docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).
```

>     * Linux on x86_64 architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Linux on x86_64 architecture
```
This sublist doesn't have periods because the items don't form a complete sentence with the list introduction.

Author: Arggg, this is so different than in french...

* On Windows only you will need:

>     * Windows Subsystem for Linux 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Windows Subsystem for Linux 2.
```

>     * Docker desktop configured to use the WSL2-based engine.

Reviewer 2: Could this be level 3 bullets below "Windows 64-bit edition". So it could be, "Windows 64-bit edition, with:"

* Use the **Prometheus address** to access the
  [Prometheus dashboard](http://localhost:9090/graph).
  _[Read more about metrics](../../HowTo/Monitor/Metrics.md)_.
* Use the **Grafana address** to access the
  [Grafana dashboard](http://localhost:3000/d/XE4V0WGZz/besu-overview?orgId=1&refresh=10s&from=now-30m&to=now&var-system=All).
  _[Read more about metrics](../../HowTo/Monitor/Metrics.md)_.
* Use the **Kibana logs address** to access the
  [logs in Kibana](http://localhost:5601/app/kibana#/discover).
  _[Read more about log management](../../HowTo/Monitor/Elastic-Stack.md)_.

To display the list of endpoints again, run:

```bash
./list.sh
```

## Block explorer

This tutorial uses a modified version of the [Alethio Ethereum Lite Explorer](https://github.com/Alethio/ethereum-lite-explorer).

### Run the block explorer

Access the explorer at [`http://localhost:25000`](http://localhost:25000) as displayed when starting
the private network.

The block explorer displays a summary of the private network, indicating four peers.

Click the block number to the right of **Best Block** to display the block details:

![Block Details](../../images/ExplorerBlockDetails.png)

> You can explore blocks by clicking on the blue blocks under **`Bk`** on the left-hand side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can explore blocks by clicking on the blocks under **`Bk`** on the left-hand side.
```
Clicking on any of gray blocks works.

Author: Oh... I see all of them blue...

You can search for a specific block, transaction hash, or address by clicking the :mag:
in the top left-hand corner.

![Explorer Search](../../images/ExplorerSearch.png)

## Monitor nodes with Prometheus and Grafana

> The sample network also includes Prometheus and Grafana monitoring tools to let you visualise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample network also includes Prometheus and Grafana monitoring tools to let you visualize
```

## Run JSON-RPC requests

You can run JSON-RPC requests on:

* HTTP with `http://localhost:8545`.

> * and Websocket with `ws://localhost:8546`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* WebSockets with `ws://localhost:8546`.
```

curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"web3_clientVersion","params":[],"id":1}' http://localhost:8545
```

The result displays the client version of the running node:

=== "Result example"

    ```json
    {
    "jsonrpc" : "2.0",
    "id" : 1,
    "result" : "besu/v21.1.2/linux-x86_64/oracle_openjdk-java-11"
    }
    ```

=== "Result explanation"

>     * `"jsonrpc" : "2.0"` indicates the that JSON-RPC 2.0 spec format is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `"jsonrpc" : "2.0"` indicates that the JSON-RPC 2.0 spec format is used.
```

### Request the most recent block number

> Call [`eth_blockNumber`](../../Reference/API-Methods.md#eth_blockNumber) to retrieve the number of the most recently synchronised block:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Call [`eth_blockNumber`](../../Reference/API-Methods.md#eth_blockNumber) to retrieve the number of the most recently synchronized block:
```

```bash
curl -X POST --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"eth_blockNumber","params":[],"id":1}' http://localhost:8545
```

> The result indicates the highest block number synchronised on this node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result indicates the highest block number synchronized on this node.
```

```json
{
  "jsonrpc" : "2.0",
  "id" : 1,
  "result" : "0x2a"
}
```

Here the hexadecimal value `0x2a` translates to decimal as `42`, the number of blocks received by the node so far,
about 2 minutes after the new network started.

## Create a transaction using MetaMask

> You will now use [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) to send a transaction on your private network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) to send a transaction on your private network.
```

In MetaMask, select the new test account and [copy its address](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015289512-How-to-copy-your-MetaMask-Account-Public-Address).

In the [Block Explorer](http://localhost:25000), search for the new test account by clicking on the :mag: and pasting
the test account address into the search box.

The new test account displays with a zero balance.

[Send test Ether](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015488931-How-to-send-ETH-and-ERC-20-tokens-from-your-MetaMask-Wallet)
from the first test account (containing test Ether) to the new test account (which has a zero balance).

!!!tip

    You can use a zero gas price here as this private test network is a [free gas network](../../HowTo/Configure/FreeGas.md)
    but the maximum amount of gas that can be used (the gas limit) for a value transaction must be at least 21000.

Refresh the Block Explorer page in your browser displaying the target test account.

The updated balance reflects the transaction completed using MetaMask.

## Smart contract and dapp usage

You can use a demo dapp called Pet Shop, provided by [Truffle](https://www.trufflesuite.com/tutorials/pet-shop).

> This dapp will run a local website using Docker and use smart contracts on the blockchain that you started in the previous steps.

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion: "You can use a demo dapp called Pet Shop, provided by Truffle. The dapp runs a local website using Docker, and uses smart contracts deployed on the network."

The network directory created by `quorum-dev-quickstart` at the beginning of this tutorial has a
`dapps` directory with a `pet-shop` subdirectory containing the source code for the dapp

> including the smart contracts, website, and configurations to run this tutorial.

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion, "The directory created by `quorum-dev-quickstart` includes a `dapps` directory with a `pet-shop` subdirectory, which contains the source code for the dapp, including..."

With the blockchain running and MetaMask connected to `Localhost 8545` via the browser,
run the following command to start the Pet Shop dapp:

```bash
cd dapps/pet-shop
./run-dapp.sh
```

The script will:

* Install the dapp Node dependencies (you may see some warning here, but it will not prevent the dapp to run).
* compiles the contracts.
* deploy then to the blockchain.
* runs tests.
* Build and run a Docker image to serve the dapp website.

> !!! example "`./run-dapp.sh` example output"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! example "`./run_dapp.sh` example output"
```

    =======
    > Total deployments:   2
    > Final cost:          0.0092294 ETH

    Using network 'quickstartWallet'.

    Compiling your contracts...
    ===========================
    > Compiling ./test/TestAdoption.sol

    TestAdoption
    ✓ testUserCanAdoptPet (2071ms)
    ✓ testGetAdopterAddressByPetId (6070ms)
    ✓ testGetAdopterAddressByPetIdInArray (6077ms)

    3 passing (37s)
    ```

    After these tests are successful, the script builds a container for the Pet Shop dapp and deploys it,
    binding it to port 3001 on your system.

    ```text
    Sending build context to Docker daemon  489.4MB
    Step 1/5 : FROM node:12.14.1-stretch-slim
    ---> 2f7e25ad14ea
    Step 2/5 : EXPOSE 3001
    ---> Using cache
    ---> 2ef0665a040a
    Step 3/5 : WORKDIR /app
    ---> Using cache
    ---> e8e97cedb575
    Step 4/5 : COPY . /app
    ---> f70e4265e598
    Step 5/5 : CMD npm run dev
    ---> Running in 3c6e8bdb3f3b
    Removing intermediate container 3c6e8bdb3f3b
    ---> ce2588e47ab0
    Successfully built ce2588e47ab0
    Successfully tagged quorum-dev-quickstart_pet_shop:latest
    b1615ab765656bc027f63fc60019dba1ca572305766c820f41eaf113b7e14cf8
    ```

> In the browser where you have MetaMask enabled and the account loaded, open a new tab and navigate

Author: ```suggestion
In the browser where you have MetaMask enabled and one of the test account loaded, open a new tab and navigate
```

> In the browser where you have MetaMask enabled and one of the test account loaded, open a new tab and navigate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the browser where you have MetaMask enabled and one of the test accounts loaded, open a new tab and navigate
```

    [account management](../../HowTo/Send-Transactions/Account-Management.md). To create your own
    account, you have to use a third-party tool, such as MetaMask.

> When you're finished importing an existing test account, [create another test account from scratch]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After importing an existing test account, [create another test account from scratch]
```

> to use as the recipient for a test Ether transaction.

Reviewer: MetaMask install comes with a default account ("Account 1"). This could be also used as a test Ether recipient - but not completely necessary to add to tutorial.

Author: The risk is that user already uses it for something else on another network and it's dangerous to have an account used for test and production at the same time.

In MetaMask, select the new test account and [copy its address](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015289512-How-to-copy-your-MetaMask-Account-Public-Address).

In the [Block Explorer](http://localhost:25000), search for the new test account by clicking on the :mag: and pasting
the test account address into the search box.

The new test account displays with a zero balance.

> [Send test Ether](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015488991-Sending-Ether-New-UI-)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Send test Ether](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015488931-How-to-send-ETH-and-ERC-20-tokens-from-your-MetaMask-Wallet)
```

Original link doesn't work.

from the first test account (containing test Ether) to the new test account (which has a zero balance).

!!!tip

    You can use a zero gas price here as this private test network is a [free gas network](../../HowTo/Configure/FreeGas.md)
    but the maximum amount of gas that can be used (the gas limit) for a value transaction must be at least 21000.

Refresh the Block Explorer page in your browser displaying the target test account.

> The updated balance displays and reflects the transaction completed using MetaMask.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The updated balance reflects the transaction completed using MetaMask.
```

## Smart contract and dapp usage

> You are now going to use a demo dapp called Pet Shop and provided by [Truffle](https://www.trufflesuite.com/tutorials/pet-shop).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a demo dapp called Pet Shop, provided by [Truffle](https://www.trufflesuite.com/tutorials/pet-shop).
```

Refresh the Block Explorer page in your browser displaying the target test account.

Refresh the browser page displaying the new account. The updated balance displays and reflects the
transaction completed using MetaMask.
The updated balance displays and reflects the transaction completed using MetaMask.

## Smart contract and DApp usage with the blockchain network
## Smart contract and dapp usage

We are going to use the
[PetShop tutorial on Truffle website](https://truffleframework.com/tutorials/pet-shop) with a few
modifications, so we use the private network in this tutorial as the blockchain network.
You are now going to use a demo dapp called Pet Shop and provided by [Truffle](https://www.trufflesuite.com/tutorials/pet-shop).

### Prerequisites
This dapp will run a local website using Docker and use smart contracts on the blockchain that you started in the previous steps.

<!-- vale off -->
* [Node.js v6+ LTS and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/) (comes with Node)
<!-- vale on -->
* Import an account into MetaMask using the private key
  `0xc87509a1c067bbde78beb793e6fa76530b6382a4c0241e5e4a9ec0a0f44dc0d3`. The following steps use

>   this account.

Reviewer: This step to import the specified account needs to be re-added to the tutorial.

Author: Why?

Reviewer: Oh - I suppose you need an account with test ether to pay the gas fees - but I see that if you imported one of the genesis accounts during the transaction step then you don't need another account. In that case, you need to edit line 408 where this account is referenced.

Author: I made a change on line 408 to specify the use of a test account.
But also because the network is a free gas network, you could run the tx with any account, you don't even need ether on it do adopt a pet as it's a smart contract call without ether transfer. So giving the correct amount of max gas to be used is required but it can have a zero gas price thus no need of a positive balance on the account. But not to confuse users, asking to use one of the test accounts is fine.

> `dapps` directory with a `pet-shop` sub-directory containing the source code for the dapp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dapps` directory with a `pet-shop` subdirectory containing the source code for the dapp
```

> including the smart contracts, website and configurations to run this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including the smart contracts, website, and configurations to run this tutorial.
```

> ./run-dapp.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./run_dapp.sh
```

> * Install the dapp Node dependencies (you may see some warning here, but it will not prevent the dapp to run).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the dapp Node dependencies (you may see some warnings here, but it will not prevent the dapp from running).
```

> * compiles the contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Compile the contracts.
```

> * deploy then to the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Deploy the contracts to the blockchain.
```

> * runs tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run tests.
```

> * Build and run a Docker image to serve the dapp website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Build and run a Docker image to serve the dapp website.
```

        --------------------
        > transaction hash:    0xd6f5b11807a0727a92b6063c95b9101769d310592b0d3cf35d6df233d05d50e6
        > Blocks: 0            Seconds: 0
        > contract address:    0xf204a4Ef082f5c04bB89F7D5E6568B796096735a
        > block number:        2749
        > block timestamp:     1618000441
        > account:             0x627306090abaB3A6e1400e9345bC60c78a8BEf57
        > balance:             89999.968712
        > gas used:            239915 (0x3a92b)
        > gas price:           20 gwei
        > value sent:          0 ETH
        > total cost:          0.0047983 ETH

        > Saving migration to chain.
        > Saving artifacts
           -------------------------------------
        > Total cost:           0.0047983 ETH

    Summary
    =======
    > Total deployments:   2
    > Final cost:          0.0092294 ETH

    Using network 'quickstartWallet'.

    Compiling your contracts...
    ===========================
    > Compiling ./test/TestAdoption.sol

    TestAdoption
    ✓ testUserCanAdoptPet (2071ms)
    ✓ testGetAdopterAddressByPetId (6070ms)
    ✓ testGetAdopterAddressByPetIdInArray (6077ms)

    3 passing (37s)
    ```

>     After these tests are successful, it builds a container for the Pet Shop DApp and deploys it,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    After these tests are successful, the script builds a container for the Pet Shop dapp and deploys it,
```

## Stop the private network and remove containers

To shut down the private network and delete all containers and images created from running the

> sample network and the PetShop dapp:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sample network and the Pet Shop dapp:
```
